# Exoplanet-Habitability-Analysis

This project deals with Star type classification using Machine Learning on Python. NASA has a Star and Exoplanet database that consists of tremendous amounts of raw data. This project aims at classifying the data using various Machine learning techniques. The classification of data creates pathways for predictive analysis of planetary systems based on stellar features.
The project consists of two main parts. In the first part, we import the data and check for any missing values or inaccurate data. We then perform class distribution to make sure the data is balanced. This is followed by plotting various characteristics against each other to find the right features to train our model. We do so by using data visualization techniques involving libraries like Pandas, Numpy, Seaborn and Matplotlib.
The next part of the code is aimed at training our model. To do this, we prepare the data by scaling it and splitting it into two parts- The Descriptive/Train set and the Target/Test set. We pick up features from the train set that have significant differences in values to give a maximum description of our training set. The machine learning model is then implemented onto the train set, and the results are tested.
While the initial part of the code displays various machine learning techniques that can be used to categorize data, the second half displays the scope of the trained set in building a machine learning model. The potential of this project extends to comparative analysis of various machine learning models. It also leaves scope for the prediction of Exoplanet habitability based on unsupervised learning models. Overall, the project exponentially reduces the human effort required to classify large datasets.
This project deals with Star type classification using Machine Learning on Python. This project aims at classifying the data using various Machine learning techniques. The classification of data creates pathways for predictive analysis of planetary systems based on stellar features.
The project consists of two main parts. In the first part, we import the data and check for any missing values or inaccurate data.  This is followed by plotting various characteristics against each other to find the right features to train our model. We do so by using data visualization techniques involving libraries like Pandas, Numpy, Seaborn and Matplotlib.
The next part of the code is aimed at training our model(Here we use Random forest Classifier). This is followed by testing the quality of the model by using 4 metrics- Accuracy, Precision, Recall, Confusion Matrix and F1-Score of the ML model. The end result is a classified dataset that can sort stars into 6 major categories based on 5 features.
